title: laura's second derive
author: ltm276
map: true
derive:
  - [40.722835, -73.993171]
  - [40.721727, -73.984850]
  - [40.724506, -73.993442]
  - [40.722730, -73.994160]
  - [40.723356, -73.995726]
  - [40.725018, -73.994882]
  - [40.726891, -73.999973]
  - [40.724566, -74.001919]
  - [40.724899, -74.002621]
  - [40.726122, -74.001610]
  - [40.723892, -73.996944]
  - [40.725276, -73.995808]
  - [40.724767, -73.994165]
  - [40.721629, -73.995471]
  - [40.720939, -73.993718]
  - [40.720279, -73.994056]
---
My second derive was far more enjoyable than my first derive. This time, my starting point was on Chrystie and Stanton, and, luckily, my derive instructions were less radical this time around.
First, I was told to find somebody wearing a hat and then to follow them. I found a teenager wearing a baseball hat and turned onto Stanton towards Bowery. From there, I began to walk north on Bowery. I was then instructed to make two lefts and then one right- a left on East Houston, a left on Elizabeth, and then a right onto Prince street. I enjoyed this beginning because the area was more familiar to me, and it was nice to see these streets in a new light, and without any distractions such as texting, talking or listening to music.
On Prince I asked a stranger what their favorite place was, which was one of my favorite tasks from my last derive. I asked a man who appeared to be a bit older than me what his favorite place is, and he answered “Joe’s Pizza” immediately. This was ironic because I happen to have very strong feelings about Joe’s. While this pizza shop is widely known to be “one of the best in the city,” I find it to be extremely mediocre and does not compare to other pizza’s I have had. When I tell this to people, they often start up a large debate. I spared this stranger my argument. After this, I was told to ask a stranger for the time, and he walked right passed me and did not answer me. This is hardly a surprise to me, and is very indicative of the New York personality- in a rush, and no regard for others on the street.
After being instructed to walk towards a bundle of clouds, I made a left on Mulberry street and started going south. I love Mulberry street- all of the restaurants and coffee shops seem very intimate to me, and the street seems to get more quaint as you head towards little Italy. The derive app then told me to find something that I have hope in. A few minutes later, I spotted a coffee shop with a ceiling decorated in colorful flower wallpaper. The place had no name out front, and there were only a few people inside. It made me feel peaceful in such a bustling city. I went inside, and had a black coffee, which I thought was very good (this is rare.) This made the experience even better because I loved that a place with no name on the door has such good coffee inside. Ironically, right after I left the coffee shop, I was told to pick up a flower. Obviously it was impossible to find a flower growing from the concrete in New York City.
I then followed a woman until she went indoors-which ended up being crate and barrel on Houston and Broadway. From there, I followed someone wearing yellow sneakers as he walks on Houston. I ended up on Mercer street, which automatically makes me think of the just-a-little-too-long walk to 194 Mercer classes. I was then instructed to walk on something edgy, so I stepped on a small gate surrounding a tree (often where dogs pee) and I felt extremely embarrassed as people passed by and looked at me like I was crazy. Then, I walked in the opposite direction as someone wearing shorts and went further west. I made a left on west Broadway and went into the Pete Lik gallery- he is my favorite photographer. After I left, I was told to look down for fifteen steps. Usually, I don’t mind walking with my head down, especially when it’s windy; however, without a phone to look down at, I felt extremely weird and sad walking this way.
Then, the app told me to go somewhere dark, which I found creepy so I skipped that instruction. After that, I was told to just stand in one place for three minutes. I didn’t think this would make me feel awkward, but it did. Again, I think this is because I could not use my phone, which lets me know that I need to get better at staying off my phone. Then, I was told to walk until I passed someone in green. I ended up on Thompson street, which I also love because it is filled with great restaurants, and reminds me of my cousin, “Judah Thompson,” who was named after Thompson street because that is where his parents lived when he was born.
Then, I was told to find a construction spot. Usually, I am surrounded by constant construction- outside of my apartment and all over New York University’s campus. However, in this area, I actually had a hard time finding construction being done. I kept on walking until I spotted a construction site on East Houston and Crosby. Then, I went over to a street vendor and bought a pack of Oreos because I was told to do so. I love Oreos, so, obviously this was a great part of my Derive. I was then told to make a right and then walk east, so I turned onto Mott street and then made a left on Spring street. I ended up on the lower end of Bowery, which reminded me of my old dorm on Broome street. These were not good memories- I hated it there. By the time I hit Delancey street, I found myself exhausted and ended my Derive.
Overall, this was a very enjoyable experience. I enjoyed walking around these areas because they feel interesting to me, and are very charming. Also, it was nice to realize how much things change when the weather gets slightly nicer. When the sun is out, and the temperature rises just a few degrees, people come out of their apartments and offices and seem much happier, and the city itself feels far more lively.
