---
title: Laura’s First Derive
author: ltm276
map: true
derive:
  - [40.716455, -73.980556]
  - [40.7166595, -73.983261]
  - [40.718621, -73.988172]
  - [40.717643, -73.988673]
  - [40.718114, -73.990245]
  - [40.719436, -73.991320]
---

As this was the first time I had ever attempted to purposely get lost in New York City, this experience was both strange and interesting. Although I am not new to New York, I have had continuous difficulty truly getting to know the city. Without google maps, I am afraid I would, at times, not feel like a true New Yorker at all. Before I began the derive, I was hoping the journey would make me feel as if I know the city better than I initially believed; however, after this project, I realized that I have far more to learn about New York City than I ever truly imagined.
My starting point was below the Williamsburg Bridge. This was surprising and strange to me because I did not even know that a neighborhood existed underneath the bridge, and I was shocked to find the area populated with people and restaurants at the time. Although it was obvious that my starting point is a populated area, it was not nearly as packed as other areas of downtown New York. This made me feel sort of eerie, as if I was a complete stranger in the city, or as if something was wrong in the neighborhood. If I am being completely honest, I did not feel safe or comfortable to be in that area by myself. I was alone in an extremely unfamiliar place, and I could imagine that I appeared to be as lost and vulnerable as I felt.
My first instruction was to cross the street. I did so, and then was told to follow the first animal that I see. Oddly enough, I did not encounter any animals for some time, and found myself standing in the street looking for a stray animal. Eventually, I saw two dogs being walked by their owner on Delancey and Columbia, my exact starting point,  and followed them to Broome street. It was weird for me to literally follow a man and his dogs, and I was hoping that the dog owner would not notice that I was staggering behind him or some time. Luckily, he did not realize what I was up to.
I was then told to find somebody wearing a pair of red shoes. I was frustrated by hits instruction, as I assumed that not that many people wear red shoes on a regular Monday afternoon. To my surprise, I immediately spotted an older man wearing red new balance sneakers on delancey street, and then immediately made a left on delancey, as instructed. This small detail about the red shoes really struck me. It made me realize that you can find anything in New York in under ten minutes- even a man wearing bright red sneakers on a Monday afternoon.
 After that, I was told to find a body of water, thus, I walked towards the east river. The east river was in the opposite direction of the turn that I had just made, but I didn’t mind going off track. I figured that is the point of the whole project, and I thoroughly enjoy looking at the water.
The instructions given to me in the beginning of my derive made it extremely difficult to leave the area in which I started. I kept having to go back and forth due to the details of my instructions, and I was worried that I would not get far at all. However, I used this to my advantage and made an extra effort to get to know my surroundings. I noticed that there were far more kids in that area than where I live, on mulberry street. I could not put together why there were more kids underneath the Williamsburg bridge, but I found it interesting. Perhaps the rent down there is cheaper, and is makes it more accessible to families. After noticing the amount of kids running around, or riding scooters, I noticed that I had already passed two public schools in the small amount of time that I had been down there. That realization tied things together for me.
Next, I was told to follow the first person I see. I felt just as odd following somebody the second time around as I did the first time around (the man with the dog). I would not want anybody following me, so I surely did not feel good following somebody else. Thus, I stayed far behind, and made sure not to be obvious about what I was doing (which also felt creepy). The first person that caught my eye was an older male wearing a thick black winter coat, and I followed him up delancey street. I followed him for a few blocks, until I noticed that he went into a liquor store. For some reason, this made me feel extremely uncomfortable, and I moved on to my next instruction.
The rest of my derive directed me deep into the lower east side, which I enjoyed much more than the first half of my journey. I found myself exploring orchard, rivington, broome, essex and more- all areas which I frequently visit. I took note of the rugged and grungy vibe of the lower east side of New York City. I believe it is something to appreciate, and its originality is something that cannot be found in other cities. My entire derive was done in silence- no music, no phone calls, no text messages- I only used my phone to use the actual derive map. This made my experience far for interesting, as I never walk without headphones and am ashamed to say that I am, too, guilty of putting my head in my phone at times. Walking in silence was refreshing, for it made me notice far more things that I normally do, and left me completely undistracted. As I walked on Allen street, I noticed a group tour going on across the street from where I was standing. Ironically, I felt like a true New Yorker in that moment- which is funny, since I was in the process of getting lost in New York. Just as I was beginning to enjoy my derive, I stepped in dog poop, and found myself extremely embarrassed in front of passersby. Somehow, even though I believed I was not distracted during my derive, I could not manage to look where I was walking! After dealing with that incident, I continued my derive and ended on a happier note, where I asked a stranger where his favorite place in New York is, and he answered “the library-“ a popular bar in my area.  
